Hi everyone, welcome to this episode of Amanda Tastes.
Today I am making this dish for summer, a Steak Salad.
Here I am using a filet steak, and it's okay to use sirloin in this dish, too.
For the sides, I have celery, bell pepper, spring onion, coriander, cherry tomatoes, peanuts, bird eye chili, basil, radish, and lime.
For the salad dressing, I have vegetable oil, fish sauce, garlic and palm sugar.
Today I am embracing a Thai flavor in the salad dressing, so I am using palm sugar. It has a creamy and coconut flavor. You may use brown sugar instead.
Cut palm sugar into fine pieces.
Peel garlic, and cut into pieces.
Same goes for bird eye chili.
And lime, give it a roll with your hand so it will be juicy, and then cut in half.
Add the garlic, bird eye chili and palm sugar in a mortar.
Add in lime juice.
Mash with pestle.
Mash them into very fine mixture.
Add in fish sauce and oil.
Now a Thai salad dressing is done.
Put peanuts in a pan, stir-fry them until they get some color.
Now, cook the steak.
I have explained how to cook steaks in a previous episode.
Season both sides with coarse salt and ground pepper.
Drizzle some olive oil.
Make sure oil both sides.
Cook it immediately, and no marinade needed.
Preheat the pan over medium to high, and put the steak in.
You can hear the steak sizzling right away.
Sear one side for about 1 min.
And then flip over.
Cook the other side for a min.
And don’t forget the sides.
Keep doing so, 1 min for one side.
There is a common way to tell you how a steak is cooked. Put your thumb and index finger together, and touch your palm.
The feeling represents how the steak is cooked, index finger means rare.
When you put your middle finger and thumb together, the touch of your palm is the same as a medium rare steak, ring finger and thumb is the same as a medium steak, and little finger and thumb is the same as medium well.
So poke the steak with your finger, and compare it with your palm. And them you will know.
Well, as for me, I think it's not very accurate to test with your own palm. Better use others palms.
Now it's done. Leave it to rest in a bowl.
Let's prepare the sides. Cut peanuts into small pieces.
Slice celery stick.
Cut bell pepper into pieces.
Slice radish.
Slice the white part of a spring onion.
Cut cherry tomatoes into halves.
Put the side vegetables together in a large bowl.
Mince coriander and basil.
Our fillet steak is ready.
Do not discard the gravy yet. Set it aside.
Cut the steak into thin slices.
Mix and toss those sides.
Get them in a plate.
Place steak slices over the sides.
Add the gravy from fillet steak into our salad dressing.
Mix well and then pour this Thai dressing over the salad.
Finish touch with some peanuts. Now it's ready to serve.
I am making this tutorial because I want to show you there are so many ways to serve a steak.
You can use vinaigrette instead of salad dressing in this dish.
I have mentioned the recipe of a vinaigrette in my potato salad episode.
In such a hot summer day, a Thai dish really cools down the heat. It's refreshing and appetizing.
The Thai flavor balances acidity, spiciness and sweetness together. So it gives you a light and refreshing feeling on a plate.
I hope you enjoy this episode of Amanda Tastes. Don’t forget to thumb up, subscribe and follow my channel.
As usual, I will post a detailed version of my recipe with pictures on Weibo and WeChat.
Lastly, thanks for watching. I will see you next week.